Feed exports: add batch deliveries (#4434)
scrapy/scrapy: docs/topics/feed-exports.rst

.. _Amazon S3: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
.. _botocore: https://github.com/boto/botocore
.. _Canned ACL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/acl-overview.html#canned-acl

.. setting:: FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_SIZE

FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_SIZE
----------------------

> Default: ``None``

Reviewer: Not sure if `None` or `0`.
I recall that @kmike made a point some time ago about not being able to disable stuff (setting to `None`) through the CLI

Reviewer 2: What if it's set to `1`?

An integer number which represent number of scraped items stored in each output
file. Whenever the number of items exceeds this setting, a new file

> creates and output redirects to it.  The name of the new file will be selected

Reviewer: > ... a new file is created and the output ...

based on timestamp when the feed is being created and/or batch sequence number.

> Therefore you must specify %(time)s or %(batch_id)s or both in the file path.

Reviewer: > or both in `FEED_URI`

.. _Amazon S3: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
.. _botocore: https://github.com/boto/botocore
.. _Canned ACL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/acl-overview.html#canned-acl

.. setting:: FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT

FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT
-----------------------------
Default: ``None``

> An integer number that represents the number of scraped items stored in each output
> file. Whenever the number of items exceeds this setting, a new file is
> created and the output is redirected to it.  The name of the new file will be selected
> based on the timestamp when the feed is being created and/or on the batch sequence number.
> Therefore you must specify %(batch_time)s or %(batch_id)s or both in :setting:`FEED_URI`.

Reviewer 3: Some things to consider:
- It should be more obvious, and explained as early as possible, that Scrapy only generates multiple output files if this set to a different value (so, not by default).
- This paragraph covers two significantly different topics (the setting value, and the handling of file names when a non-zero value is used), so different paragraphs make sense.

For example:
```suggestion
If assigned an integer number higher than `0`, Scrapy generates multiple output files
storing up to the specified number of items in each output file.

When generating multiple output files, you must use at least one of the following
placeholders in :setting:`FEED_URI` to indicate how the different output file names are
generated:
```

Author: > If assigned an integer number higher than `0`

Should we also use double quotes here?

Reviewer 3: Indeed :facepalm:

Reviewer 3: Also, mind that to make a separate paragraph a new line is not enough. You need an empty line in between.

> * ``%(batch_time)s`` - gets replaced by a timestamp when the feed is being created
>   (e.g. `2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134`)
> 
> * ``%(batch_id)s`` - gets replaced by the batch  sequence number of batch
>   (e.g. `2` for the second file)

Reviewer 3: My bad on the code quotes (and some minor issues):

```suggestion
* ``%(batch_time)s`` - gets replaced by a timestamp when the feed is being created
  (e.g. ``2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134``)

* ``%(batch_id)s`` - gets replaced by the batch sequence number
  (e.g. ``2`` for the second file)
```

For instance, if your settings include::

    FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT=100

And your :command:`crawl` command line is::

  scrapy crawl spidername -o dirname/%(batch_id)s-filename%(batch_time)s.json

> The resulting directory tree of above can be like::

Reviewer 3: I find “of above” a bit awkward in that sentence. If you want to include a spatial reference to “above”, what about something more like this?

```suggestion
The command line above can generate a directory tree like::
```

->projectname
-->dirname
--->1-filename2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134.json
--->2-filename2020-03-28T14-45-09.148903.json
--->3-filename2020-03-28T14-45-10.046092.json

Where the first and second files contain exactly 100 items. The last one contains

> <= 100 items.

Reviewer 3: :lipstick: 

```suggestion
100 items or fewer.
```

.. _Amazon S3: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
.. _botocore: https://github.com/boto/botocore
.. _Canned ACL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/acl-overview.html#canned-acl

.. setting:: FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT

FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT
-----------------------------

> Default: ``None``

Reviewer 2: I agree with @ejulio:

```suggestion
Default: ``0``
```

And we could use `BaseSettings.getint` instead of `BaseSettings.get` when querying this setting.

If assigned an integer number higher than ``0``, Scrapy generates multiple output files
storing up to the specified number of items in each output file.

When generating multiple output files, you must use at least one of the following
placeholders in :setting:`FEED_URI` to indicate how the different output file names are
generated:

* ``%(batch_time)s`` - gets replaced by a timestamp when the feed is being created
  (e.g. ``2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134``)

* ``%(batch_id)s`` - gets replaced by the batch  sequence number of batch
  (e.g. ``2`` for the second file)

For instance, if your settings include::

    FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT=100

And your :command:`crawl` command line is::

  scrapy crawl spidername -o dirname/%(batch_id)s-filename%(batch_time)s.json

The command line above can generate a directory tree like::

->projectname
-->dirname
--->1-filename2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134.json
--->2-filename2020-03-28T14-45-09.148903.json
--->3-filename2020-03-28T14-45-10.046092.json

Where the first and second files contain exactly 100 items. The last one contains

> 100 items or fever.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
100 items or fewer.
```

.. _Amazon S3: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
.. _botocore: https://github.com/boto/botocore
.. _Canned ACL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/acl-overview.html#canned-acl

.. setting:: FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT

FEED_STORAGE_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT
-----------------------------
Default: ``0``

If assigned an integer number higher than ``0``, Scrapy generates multiple output files
storing up to the specified number of items in each output file.

When generating multiple output files, you must use at least one of the following

> placeholders in :setting:`FEED_URI` to indicate how the different output file names are

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
placeholders in the feed URI to indicate how the different output file names are
```
`FEED_URI` was deprecated with the introduction of `FEEDS`

generated:

* ``%(batch_time)s`` - gets replaced by a timestamp when the feed is being created
  (e.g. ``2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134``)

* ``%(batch_id)s`` - gets replaced by the batch  sequence number of batch

>   (e.g. ``2`` for the second file)

Reviewer 4: Should some kind of padding be added here? A simple numeric increment would produce unexpected results I think:
```
>>> sorted(["1", "2", "10"])
['1', '10', '2']
```

`zfill` seems like a reasonable solution, but I'm not sure about the amount of characters.

Author: This is a good idea, but for use zfill we should know the maximum amount of characters in %(batch_id)s in advance. If I clearly understand what you propose.

Reviewer 3: I think the current approach is OK. Smart file browsers should be able to sort the generated files properly.

In the future, maybe we can extend the `%(batch_id)s` syntax to allow users to specify a number of leading zeroes.

Reviewer 4: I have traveled into the future and I've seen a lot of issues about this 😛 

The problem is that most file browsers are not that smart. The only ones that worked for me were Finder on macOS and Caja on Linux Mint, and I think that wasn't the case not so long ago.
In particular, `ls` and `aws s3 ls` do not work, and I think that's a problem.

What about going with a fixed number, like 4? It's pushing the problem into the future, but given that the current code allows only one batch, I believe allowing 10000 should be more than enough for most cases, only adding 3 bytes to the existing file names.

Reviewer 5: I wonder if we can solve it by

1) documenting that batch_id is always an integer
2) using a different format specifier, e.g.  "%(batch_id)04d" or "%(batch_id)05d"
3) explainng the issue in the docs and showing how to increase leading zero count by using a different format specifier

Reviewer 4: That's great, I knew about stuff like `"{batch_id:04d}".format(batch_id=1)` but I wasn't aware of the percentage formatting equivalent. Seems like no code changes are necessary then, documentation is the way to go. Thanks!

.. _botocore: https://github.com/boto/botocore
.. _Canned ACL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/acl-overview.html#canned-acl

.. setting:: FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT

FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT
-----------------------------
Default: ``0``

If assigned an integer number higher than ``0``, Scrapy generates multiple output files
storing up to the specified number of items in each output file.

When generating multiple output files, you must use at least one of the following
placeholders in the feed URI to indicate how the different output file names are
generated:

* ``%(batch_time)s`` - gets replaced by a timestamp when the feed is being created
  (e.g. ``2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134``)

* ``%(batch_id)d`` - gets replaced by the sequence number of the batch.

  Use :ref:`printf-style string formatting <python:old-string-formatting>` to
  alter the number format. For example, to make the batch ID a 5-digit
  number by introducing leading zeroes as needed, use ``%(batch_id)05d``
  (e.g. ``3`` becomes ``00003``, ``123`` becomes ``00123``).

For instance, if your settings include::

    FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT=100

And your :command:`crawl` command line is::

>     scrapy crawl spidername -o dirname/%(batch_id)d-filename%(batch_time)s.json

Reviewer 6: @BroodingKangaroo Hi, I'm trying to run scrapy installed from your branch and I'm getting an error with the parentheses, following your docs example highlighted above:

```
$ scrapy crawl books -o books-%(batch_id)d-ending.json
bash: syntax error near unexpected token `('
```
It seems to accept the expression surrounded by quotes (as bellow), so I'd suggest to update the docs with it wrapped with quotes:
```
$ scrapy crawl books -o 'books-%(batch_id)d-ending.json'
```

Author: You are right, I will update the docs.
I should say that this also happens in the master branch with placeholders like `%(time)s`, `%(name)s` and I didn't find information about quotes in such cases in docs.

Default: ``None``

An integer number which represent number of scraped items stored in each output
file. Whenever the number of items exceeds this setting, a new file is
created and output redirects to it.  The name of the new file will be selected
based on timestamp when the feed is being created and/or batch sequence number.

> Therefore you must specify %(time_id)s or %(batch_id)s or both in FEED_URI.

Reviewer: If `time_id` is to avoid keep backwards incompatibility with `time`.
Maybe, `batch_time` is a better name.
As I can't read `time_id` and get a sense of what it means

Author: Done.

        'csv': None,
    }

.. setting:: FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT

> FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT
> -----------------------------
> Default: ``0``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT
----------------------------

Default: ``0``
```

If assigned an integer number higher than ``0``, Scrapy generates multiple output files
storing up to the specified number of items in each output file.

When generating multiple output files, you must use at least one of the following
placeholders in the feed URI to indicate how the different output file names are
generated:

* ``%(batch_time)s`` - gets replaced by a timestamp when the feed is being created
  (e.g. ``2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134``)

* ``%(batch_id)d`` - gets replaced by the sequence number of the batch.

  Use :ref:`printf-style string formatting <python:old-string-formatting>` to
  alter the number format. For example, to make the batch ID a 5-digit
  number by introducing leading zeroes as needed, use ``%(batch_id)05d``
  (e.g. ``3`` becomes ``00003``, ``123`` becomes ``00123``).

For instance, if your settings include::

>     FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT=100

Reviewer 3: PEP8

```suggestion
    FEED_EXPORT_BATCH_ITEM_COUNT = 100
```

* ``%(batch_time)s`` - gets replaced by a timestamp when the feed is being created
  (e.g. ``2020-03-28T14-45-08.237134``)

> * ``%(batch_id)0xd`` - gets replaced by the sequence number of the batch.
> By replacing ``x`` with an integer you set the number of leading zeroes to prevent
> inappropriate sorting like this: [``'1'``, ``'10'``, ``'2'``]. Here are some examples:
>     ``%(batch_id)01d`` for the second batch gets replaced by ``2``
>     ``%(batch_id)05d`` for the third batch gets replaced by ``00003``

Reviewer 3: I would:
- Replace `%(batch_id)0xd` with `%(batch_id)d` (the simplest form that you can use)
- Replace “By replacing… ” by a reference to https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#old-string-formatting
- Remove the `01d` example (that would be the default behavior without formatting specifiers), leaving only the `05d` one. And since it is only one example, it should probably be featured inline, not as a list item.

```suggestion
* ``%(batch_id)d`` - gets replaced by the sequence number of the batch.

  Use :ref:`printf-style string formatting <python:old-string-formatting>` to
  alter the number format. For example, to make the batch ID a 5-digit
  number by introducing leading zeroes as needed, use ``%(batch_id)05d``
  (e.g. ``3`` becomes ``00003``, ``123`` becomes ``00123``).
```

And your :command:`crawl` command line is::

>     scrapy crawl spidername -o 'dirname/%(batch_id)d-filename%(batch_time)s.json'

Reviewer 3: I _think_ in Windows `cmd.exe` single quotes won’t work. See https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/intro/tutorial.html#extracting-data
